--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 34 - 15th August 2011
---

## Issue 34 - 15th August

I had the good fortune this week of speaking to a room filled with
developers at the London Ruby User Group. What struck me was that lots
of people have yet to join the discussion around devops tools and ideas,
and at the same time lots of people are very interested. Hopefully a few
of those folks are reading this this week.


News
====

I think I forgot to mention the addition of encrypted data bags to Chef
when they were released. To make up for that omission here's a nice
worked example of using the new feature to prevent you storing a
cleartext password in your recipes.

http://jtimberman.posterous.com/64227128

Netflix have written a little about their build pipeline, which is based
around creating custom AMI's for deployment on EC2. They prevent any and
all changes to these images once mastered, which prevents any changes to
configuration later on.

http://techblog.netflix.com/2011/08/building-with-legos.html

The nice folks at Forward have started posting videos of some of their
internal tech talks, including this one about autoscaling with Puppet by
Ryan Conway. It's just ten minutes long so worth a watch.

http://forwardtechnology.co.uk/videos/27335693

The recent London Ruby User Group took on a bit of a devops feel, with
presentations about Puppet and one about Vagrant, Chef and local
development environments from myself. Skills Matter who kindly provide
the venue had videos of the talks up the next day.

http://skillsmatter.com/event/home/lrug-puppet

A recent presentation by Patrick Debois and Julian Simpson covering all
things infrastructure as code. It dives into creating base boxes for
vagrant, using mccloud to fire up EC2 instances and shows examples of
using Cucumber-Nagios for alerting.

http://www.slideshare.net/jedi4ever/continuous-integration-for-the-world-infrastructure-as-code

Interesting ideas talking the technical dept ideas popular when
discussing agile software delivery and applying them to the types of
problem devops techniques aim to solve. The idea of using this when
trying to get buy-in to projects sounds a good one.

http://dev2ops.org/blog/2011/8/9/devops-and-technical-debt-a-debt-crisis-in-your-workplace.html


Tools
=====

Chef 0.10.4 is out, and looks to be a must have release for anyone
running Redhat based distributions. Lots of bug fixes and lots more
performance improvements.

http://www.opscode.com/blog/2011/08/11/chef-0-10-4-released/

Capistrano is a great tool, but once you have more than a few hosts the
configuration can get out of hand - especially if it's duplicating that
already stored in Chef or Puppet or similar. Capistano-Cobbler is a tool
which can extract the required host information from a Cobbler server,
meaning less duplication and more dynamism.

https://github.com/proffalken/capistrano-cobbler

Your source control system has lots of interesting information locked up
in it's meta data, and Metior looks an interesting tool for extracting
some of that if you're using Git. It provides a Ruby library for
generating reports and accessing quite fine grained metrics.

http://koraktor.de/metior/
