--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 46 - 13th November 2011
---

## Issue 46 - 13th November

I really wish I had enough time to delve into all the content I feature
in these weekly emails. I'm sure it's the same for many readers, so many
interesting goings on and too little time.


News
====

Lots of devops flavoured conversations talk about automation and tools,
but without really defining either. This post does just that and it's
definitions should probably be adopted here on in. The points raised
about how automation can clash with existing uses of tools is nicely put
as well.

http://everythingsysadmin.com/2011/11/tools-vs-automation.html


I'm not always a fan of Capistrano, but past the defaults it's
surprisingly flexible. This post covers some of those features,
including using several of the supported environment variables to manage
which hosts get tasks run on them.

http://blog.railsware.com/2011/11/02/advanced-server-definitions-in-capistrano/


Those of us not able to get to Velocity Europe this last week can at
least relive some of the experience by watching the videos of some of
the sessions, already uploaded to YouTube. 15 good lucking videos
available so far covering quite a range of interesting topics.

http://www.youtube.com/playlist?p=PLEF30FFC877957631


An interesting idea in the monitoring space, monitoring.txt aims to be
for monitoring what robots.txt is for web crawlers. Currently it's
related to a soon to be released commercial monitoring tool but in
theory it could be used by any monitoring framework.

http://monitorstxt.org/


I've not yet come up with a way of using Puppet environments that I
like, but many interesting conversations at Puppetconf were had on the
subject. This article shows a few tricks for using dynamic environments
based on git branches. The post commit hook example is particularly
useful.

http://puppetlabs.com/blog/git-workflow-and-puppet-environments/


In certain circles, conversation often turns to writing tests for
configuration management code. And hopefully the day is fast approaching
where this will be just how we do things. This blog post helps,
explaining why this is a good idea if you're not already test infected,
and then showing how to test a puppet module with spec-puppet.

http://bombasticmonkey.com/2011/11/04/test-your-puppet-modules-functions/


A second article from Tim Sharpe, this one a nice Puppet story, with the
ending being that "anything is possible in Puppet if youâ€™re willing to
get your hands dirty". Puppet might provide a quite specific DSL, but if
you're happy with Ruby you can take things much further.

http://bombasticmonkey.com/2011/11/13/autonotify-resources-from-your-puppet-types/


Noah is the lightweight node/service registry from John Vincent,
inspired by Apache Zookeeper. John has a number of fairly large changes
he's considering to make Noah more flexible and he's looking for
feedback on some of the proposals. Whether you're an existing user or
just interested worth a look.

https://github.com/lusis/Noah/wiki/Possible-changes-in-Noah


Graylog2 is about to see a 0.9.6 release with some pretty large changes.
In particular log messages will no longer be stored in MongoDB,
requiring an ElasticSearch backend. This apparently resolves issues some
folks have had accessing large amounts of logs previously. Some changes
to graph rendering should also speed things up too.

http://www.lennartkoopmann.net/post/12512504316/whats-coming-graylog2-v096


Events
=====

ScaleConf is a new 2 day conference being held in Cape Town in January
next year. They are currently looking for speakers and sponsors so if
you're interested get in touch with the organisers.

http://scaleconf.org/


Tools
====


Mentioned at work this week, this Ruby gem is a code coverage tool for
CSS. It's aim is to find rules which are not longer used, letting you
delete them. This is good both from a performance point of view as well
as a maintenance one, less code is nearly always more.

https://github.com/aanand/deadweight


Pennyworth describes itself as "a continuous packaging system built
around Opscode's Chef, Jenkins and the fpm packaging tool". It ships
with vagrant support for testing, a wide range of Chef cookbooks and
some interesting looking data bag driven configuration. Would love to
see a walk through or detailed tutorial.

https://github.com/heavywater/pennyworth
