--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 35 - 21st August 2011
---

## Issue 35 - 21st August

I don't know what it was about this week but lots of the articles I came
across were about systems orchestration. It's definitely a hot topic,
with more tools and more discussion coming along all the time. I'm
making sense of that with the help of this nice graphic from Canonical
https://ensemble.ubuntu.com/DevOps which I really want on a T-shirt.


News
====

Devops Cafe is back in the form of Devops Drop, an under 10 minutes
podcast filled with discussion and news from John Willis and Damon
Edwards. In three days we've seen three episodes covering details of
crowbar, cloudfoundry, dynect, netflix, hack day and lots more. Looking
forward to future episodes.

http://devopscafe.org/show/2011/8/17/devops-drop-001.html
http://devopscafe.org/show/2011/8/18/devops-drop-002.html
http://devopscafe.org/show/2011/8/19/devops-drop-003.html


A great series of posts about what I think is a very common setup -
namely a redundant six machine web application cluster. Goes over the
basics of load balancing, redundant database setup and even goes into
the costs associated.

http://rackerhacker.com/redundant-cloud-hosting-configuration-guide/


Ensemble looks to be interesting. It's being developed by Canonical and
is another tool aimed at orchestrating applications across multiple
servers. It will be available in Ubuntu 11.10 or you can get it from a
PPA now.

http://cloud.ubuntu.com/2011/08/ensemble-the-service-orchestration-framework-for-hard-core-devops/
https://ensemble.ubuntu.com/


Upstart is an event-based replacement for the the init daemon which
appears to be picking up lots of fans. It also has unbelievably good
documentation all in one place. This huge page covers why it exists, how
to use it and lots of cookbook style patterns.

http://upstart.ubuntu.com/cookbook/


A nice quick presentation entitled Mastering Complex Deployments.
Covering what the problems are, why they are unlikely to go away and
what we can do about them. I particularly like the line "Relentlessly
Remove Variation".

http://www.slideshare.net/Urbancode/mastering-complexdeployments


Continuing what appears to be a theme this week, I came across a nice
introductory article on Mcollective. Describing the problems simply and
showing examples of some of the bundled tools. A good starting point if
you've yet to look into Mcollective.

http://redbluemagenta.com/2011/08/19/mcollective/


Mcollective is often thought to be a Puppet specific tool, especially
after it moved house to Puppetlabs. But nothing is really Puppet
specific, as this post shows. As well as quickly presenting Mcollective
this article covers some basic Chef integration and points out a few
things that need addressing. I particularly like that a Vagrant box is
provided for anyone to experiment with themselves.

http://www.cryptocracy.com/using-mcollective-with-chef


A nice article aimed at CIO's and business folk on bridging the dev and
ops divide. It breaks things down to six elements, which really all come
down to improving collaboration, communication and people.

http://www.cio.com/article/688026/How_To_Improve_Collaboration_with_Development_and_Operations


Jobs
====

Cox Media Group is looking for a passionate senior engineer who wants a
large role in architecting and implementing our continuous deployment
process. We're using Python, Django, Git, Puppet, Postgres and RabbitMQ
to build out one of the largest media platforms for more than 120 sites.
We've got the backing of a billion dollar company, but the freedom and
flexibility to move fast and break new ground. We're located in Atlanta,
GA but teleworking is an option for the right candidates. If this sounds
appealing or you'd like to learn more contact johnny.preyer@coxinc.com


Tools
=====

Pencil is a dashboard building tool for use with Graphite. I
particularly like the idea of being able to turn a relative timeslice
(say the last 8 hours) into an absolute one for placing a URL in bug
reports.

https://github.com/fetep/pencil


Lint tools can be really handy, both when learning a new language and
especially when refactoring. So it's nice to see a lint tool for puppet
being worked on. It would be nice to see some documentation and details
of what it's checking but I'm sure that will come.

https://github.com/rodjek/puppet-lint
