--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 33 - 7th August 2011
---

## Issue 33 - 7th August

In a quick break from the news and releases, I have to give special
mention this week to John Willis for his latest addition to the music of
devops: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pebIr4F-vjQ. Right, on with the
regular programme.

## News

Many of the abstracts for PuppetConf have been released. I'm
particularly looking forward to the Noah talk, and some of the notes on
Luke Kanies' keynote sound interesting; a move into application
management and how puppet can be smaller, faster, and easier to
integrate with.

http://puppetconf.com/speakers/

My experience with Chef has been that you really only get the benefits
if you understand all the different moving parts and how they tie
together. I came across a useful representation of this architecture on
the much improved Chef wiki this week, specifically everything mapped
out using UML.

http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Chef+Concepts+as+UML

I'm guessing most of the readers of this newsletter spend a lot of their
time on the command line. So I'm always happy when I find people talking
about user interface issues and design guidelines for command line
applications. Next time you're building a little application try and
remember some of the guidelines on this post.

http://www.antoarts.com/designing-command-line-interfaces/

It's always interesting to see what technologies and movements other
people find interesting, and the Thoughworks technology radar is a nice
example. Infrastructure as code, Continuous deployment and Devops ideas
feature prominently alongside lots of other things I'm fond of that I
want to see more people using.

http://www.thoughtworks.com/articles/technology-radar-july-2011

A good argument that reaching some areas of the wider systems
administration ecosystem with devops ideas might be much harder that you
might think. The reluctance for some to write code in any form is
pointed out, as is the scarcity of people who make good systems
programmers.

http://blogs.citrix.com/2011/07/29/the-reluctance-to-code-is-devops-doomed/

The idea of Polyglot programmers has been popular for a while, with more
new languages seemingly becoming popular overnight. This post from
Heroku talks about what that means for your typical deployment and
operating infrastructure. The table comparing different languages and
the duplication of tools is interesting, as is the call for more
language-neutral interfaces.

http://blog.heroku.com/archives/2011/8/3/polyglot_platform/

On the face of it EC2 reserved instances look like a great way of
reducing the cost of running in EC2. This post however argues that a
hidden cost of reserved instances is the lack of flexibility. If you're
just using EC2 to bring up a relatively stable number and type of
instance then reserved instances can work but you're not getting the
full benefit of the cloud environment. If your cluster is much more
dynamic then reserved instances might not save you money.

http://theagileadmin.com/2011/03/31/why-amazon-reserve-instances-torment-me/

An hour long video from Damon Edwards talking devops and system
architecture with Ernest Mueller and Peco Karayanev of National
Instruments. It should be particularly interesting to anyone working
inside a large organisation as lots of the conversation is about how to
make positive changes and get everyone involved in delivery and
operations.

http://dev2ops.org/blog/2011/7/12/devops-in-the-enterprise-whiteboard-session-at-national-inst.html

I'm really interested in the fight between continuous integration and
feature branches. It feels to me that we need more discussion from both
sides on this issue, partly because I see the same thing pointed out in
the Thoughtworks technology radar - that as developers we're branching
and merging more because the latest tools make it easy to do so. Martin
Fowlers piece on one of the problems with a branch heavy approach makes
interesting reading.

http://martinfowler.com/bliki/SemanticConflict.html


## Jobs

Carrenza need some help with the Sport Relief 2012 platform build, and
are looking for contract or permanent Chef lovers.
iwanttowork@carrenza.com if you're feeling charitable.

(This section is sponsored, if you're interested in featuring a job get
in touch at gareth@morethanseven.net)

## Tools

The idea of writing tests for configuration management tools is talked
about a lot, and chef spec looks an interesting approach if you're using
Chef. For a new project the documentation is also great.

http://acrmp.github.com/chefspec/

Porkshop describes itself as a simple network-based system information
server. Install it on your servers and it exposes information about the
host over a simple HTTP interface. Plugins look simple enough to write
too.

https://github.com/disqus/porkchop

Bunraku is a simple status panel for puppet, hooking into the puppet
reporting facility and storing information in Redis. It's also looks
like it would make a good starting point if you wanted to build you're
own report processing tool.

https://github.com/jamtur01/bunraku
