--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 39 - 18th September 2011
---

## Issue 39 - 18th September

Next weeks issue of Devops Weekly might be a little late, because next
week I'm heading to Portland for PuppetConf. If you're going to be there
come and say hello , I'll be the small English fellow hanging around the
devops track.


News
====

The programme for Devopsdays Europe is out, and I'm even more happy that
I'll be making it along again that before. Six really interesting
looking sessions with a good mix of case studies and interesting
discussions.

http://devopsdays.org/events/2011-goteborg/program/


The number of technologies, programming languages and systems used these
days for building web applications is much larger than even a few years
ago. This site looks to be a interesting overview of that change, with a
long wiki like list of technologies to investigate.

http://stackparts.com/


The Canonical folks have started posting some examples of using Ensemble
to build various stacks. This post covers a node.js, mongodb and haproxy
deployment. Even if you're not interested in the specific technology
used, it's interesting to see the command line interface for working
with ensemble.

http://cloud.ubuntu.com/2011/09/node-js-and-mongodb-on-ubuntu/


A nice impassioned plea to get ops savvy people involved in the design
of services alongside developers. Also talks about the importance of
positioning operational metrics and data as something of interest to
developers as well as prioritising what to do first in the move towards
a devops mentality.

http://theagileadmin.com/2011/09/12/wont-somebody-please-think-of-the-systems/


This post looks at what hoops need jumping through to get CloudFoundry
running in EC2 from the latest source. Particularly impressive is
running the applications across multiple instances.

http://www.cloudsoftcorp.com/blogs/first-steps-with-cloud-foundry-on-amazon-ec2


Another setting up CloudFoundry article, this time using the new
packages in Ubuntu 11.10. Having started hacking on CloudFoundry when it
was released it's great to see working packages.

http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2011/08/howto-install-cloudfoundry-server-paas.html


A nice 20 minute talk on Devops, Devops, Devops from Kris Buytaert at
the recent Startup Weekend Brussels. A nice introductory run through
many of the devops concepts.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_IhstaBetkk


Anyone with as many servers as Facebook will always have some of them
down. FBAR is one of the tools they have developed to make this as self
healing as possible and this article suggests the software now
maintained by two full time developers does the work of two hundred
system administrators.

https://www.facebook.com/notes/facebook-engineering/making-facebook-self-healing/10150275248698920


Events
======

PubSub Huddle is a free one-day conference in London to talk about all
things messaging. Talks on RabbitMQ,  Ã˜MQ and an afternoon of lightning
talks and ad-hoc sessions is planned. Worthwhile if you're in London on
Friday 23rd of September.

http://pubsubhuddle.com/


Tools
=====

Shadow Puppet is described as a Ruby DSL for Puppet, giving those that
prefer it a different way of writing Puppet manifests in this case as
Ruby classes.

https://github.com/railsmachine/shadow_puppet/


Mcollective 1.3.1 is out, which is a development branch release and
features a much improved node filtering syntax and a fast node to node
communication mechanism via the same middleware.

http://docs.puppetlabs.com/mcollective/releasenotes.html#1_3_1


Boss is a library designed to allow you to perform simple master
election while knowing little about your peers, specifically designed
for use with Chef. Light on documentation, but the included Vagrant file
lets you try it out very quickly. Hopefully something we'll see in other
projects in the future.

https://github.com/fujin/boss


Ecks is another new tool designed as a simple way to get data out of a
remote machine using SNMP. It's a python application, with a simple to
use interface for extracting information like uptime, load average,
running processes and cpu usage.

https://github.com/cread/ecks
