--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 41 - 9th October 2011
---

## Issue 41 - 9th October

I'm lucky enough to be off on another devops floured trip this week, to
Sweden for the third Devopsdays Europe event. Here's hoping it will be
just as interesting, friendly and informative as last year. If you're
going to be attending come find me and say Hi.


News
====

Really nice article which should be relevant to anyone involved in
software development and operations, about how to ensure useful
communication in a crisis. Much of this is about up front planning and
practice, but the examples and approaches make this article a good read.

http://www.alistapart.com/articles/fire-drills-communications-strategy-in-a-crisis/


As someone who has spent lots of time with Python but who is now mainly
writing Ruby this post about Ruby becoming the de facto System
Administration programming language is interesting. Some of the comments
are also interesting, even if some devolve into language wars a little.

http://devopsanywhere.blogspot.com/2011/09/how-ruby-is-beating-python-in-battle.html


It feels like the Chef Windows support has been coming along nicely of
late and people are posting more how-to's. This one shows how to ensure
idempotence by checking whether something is installed in the Windows
registry.

http://delivermind.blogspot.com/2011/10/windows-msi-idempotence-with-chef.html


A plea to get rid of silos in organisation which allow one group (lets
say developers) to cause pain to another (their operations colleagues).
I definitely agree with the theme, though I'm not sure the solution is
to get rid of different roles completely, more to improve collaboration
and communication.

http://blog.recursivity.com/post/10842820535/developers-must-feel-the-pain-of-operations


The Puppet Labs folk have posted a short list of blog posts from
attendees to Puppet Conf last week. I'm still digesting some of the
excellent talks. Anyone else who made it along and has written up their
thoughts let me know.

http://puppetlabs.com/blog/puppetconf-blog-round-up/


A good set of Vagrant tutorial blog posts taking you from getting
started, through creating your own base boxes up to using Puppet to
manage software on the virtual machine. Rather that just the facts found
in the official docs these posts are a little more flavoured by a real
world scenario and make a good starting point for anyone interested in
Vagrant.

http://devops.me/2011/10/05/vagrant/
http://devops.me/2011/10/06/building-baseboxes/
http://devops.me/2011/10/07/bootstrapping-vagrant-with-puppet/


One way of updating the puppet modules on your puppet master is using
the mcmasterupdate collective plugin. This article shows how this is
done using a simple svn commit hook.

http://flybyunix.carlcaum.com/2011/10/automatically-updating-your-puppet.html


Lots of people talk about their software architecture, but fewer talk
about mistakes and how they solved them over time. This article about
how Etsy has changed over time is interesting, stressing the positive
impact of web operations folks on the eventual system.

http://arstechnica.com/business/news/2011/10/when-clever-goes-wrong-how-etsy-overcame-poor-architectural-choices.ars


Events
=====

Camp Devops, which is taking place later this month in Chicago, now has
a full line-up of talks announced. With sessions on Continuous Delivery,
Puppet, Jenkins and Graphite amongst other topics and a day long
hackathon it should be a pretty good tools focused few days.

http://campdevops.com/sessions



Tools
====

GDash is a nice looking project for anyone using Graphite. It's a small
Ruby web application designed for building customisable dashboards of
Graphite metrics. You describe what you want in a simple configuration
and you can easily run the dashboard on Heroku if you're not up on
hosting Ruby based web applications.

http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/10/08/gdash-graphite-dashboard.php
https://github.com/ripienaar/gdash
