--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 38 - 11th September
---

## Issue 38 - 11th September

One way of seeing the growth in any community is the growth in events
around it. And as I'm finding more and more events I'll try and
highlight any interesting ones each week. If you're involved in
organising anything that might be relevant let me know.


News
====

The devops issue of the Cutter IT Journal is out with guest editor
Patrick Debois. It's available for free download if you provide some
details and contains several articles including process discussion and
case studies.

http://www.cutter.com/offers/devopsrevolution.html


If you're running a particularly large and dynamic puppet install you
might decide that using the FQDN has some limitations around every node
needing a sensible DNS entry. This article discusses a different
approach using UUIDs.

http://puppetize.me/2011/09/05/using-uuids-for-agent-certnames/


A few more weekly niche newsletters have launched recently that might be
of interest to devops folks interested in Perl or NoSQL data stores.

http://perlweekly.com/
http://www.nosqlweekly.com/


I like articles that go into detail about using a different approach to
solve increasingly common problems, and this article about processing a
large song database using map reduce is great. Increasingly important to
know about as the amount of data we collect increases.

http://musicmachinery.com/2011/09/04/how-to-process-a-million-songs-in-20-minutes/


Getting started with Chef or Puppet is probably the hard part, so
detailed walkthroughs like this are particularly valuable. This post
covers writing a Chef cookbook, with lots of code examples and lots of
discussion and the steps.

http://jtimberman.posterous.com/guide-to-writing-chef-cookbooks


A nice article introducing jitter as something you might want to measure
when looking at performance. Jitter is an unpredictable variation in
response, so reducing it is subtly different to reducing response time.

http://www.codingthearchitecture.com/2011/09/06/jitter.html


Anyone doing any on-call support of a software application will probably
find this article, and the paper it references, interesting. Briefly
talks about the difference between fault tolerance and fault protection,
and how that frames when you and how you're altering system should call
a person.

http://www.kitchensoap.com/2011/09/08/fault-tolerance-and-protection/


OpenStack is pretty interesting, but with all the moving parts it's not
the easiest thing to get up and running. The next release of Ubuntu
(Oneiric Ocelot) ships with a full set of packages for running
everything. And this post shows you how to install and run them.

http://zulcss.wordpress.com/2011/09/01/el-diablo-running-nova-on-oneiric/


Events
======

A event that might be of interest to readers in London is CITCON
(Continuous Integration and Testing Conference) . It brings together
people from every corner of the software development industry to discuss
continuous integration and the type of testing that goes along with it.

http://citconf.com/london2011/


Another devops flavoured conference is coming to Chicago in October on
the 22nd and 23rd. It's focused on automation and tools and early bird
prices are available until the 15th of September too.

http://campdevops.com/


Tools
=====

Everyone loves backups, but I'm not sure anyone really likes setting
them up and monitoring them. This project might be of interest depending
on your requirements. It provides a large range of backup methods for
several databases, along with different off site locations and syncing
mechanisms.

https://github.com/meskyanichi/backup
