--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 43 - 23rd October 2011
---

## Issue 43 - 23rd October

Back to our usual Sunday schedule this week after the Devopsdays special
last weekend. Even without a very lively conference their are still lots
of well written articles and interesting new tools around. Hopefully
something for everyone.


News
====

Deployment is always a hot topic, and this series of posts is looking to
document common patterns including dark launches, feature flags, smoke
tests and backwards compatibility. Essential reading.

http://blog.lusis.org/blog/2011/10/18/deploy-all-the-things/


The idea of pattern repositories has been around a while and can be a
good way of documenting best practices. This site currently covers
environment abstraction, fix the automation, not the symptom and
database changes as code. Hopefully more on the way, and more discussion
around shared patterns.

http://devopswire.com/patterns/repository


Knowing Git is becoming more and more important with the huge amount of
useful software found on GitHub and other online repositories like
BitBucket. This online book looks an excellent starting place for
learning all the ins and outs.

http://yanpritzker.com/git-book/


Nagios is the mainstay for many people monitoring hosts and services,
and this projects adds a JSON based API and a command line interface for
getting information out of Nagois. Patches welcome for adding new
features.

http://qq.is/article/announcing-a-nagios-api


The combination of interesting tools along with configuration management
and a nice command line interface can make experimenting with things
much simpler. This project takes the Graylog2 logging application and
uses puppet and capistrano to turn a new virtual machine into a fully
working logging server. Can someone do this for Graphite as well please?

https://bitbucket.org/aussielunix/graylog2-appliance


Nice presentation bringing design and quality assurance roles into the
typical developer and operations mix. I particularly liked the Given,
When, Then examples of operations and support stories.

http://www.slideshare.net/ingineeringit/design-dev-qa-ops


Notes from the Camp Devops talk on how Groupon have scaled their
operations. From 100 servers in a single location a year ago, to more
than 1000 servers in six locations today. Groupon have an in-house
configuration management tool called Roller and the notes cover some of
the details.

http://devops.com/2011/10/22/groupon-clean-and-simple-devops-with-roller/


How you store sensitive data for use in configuration management is an
important topic. Chef now has encrypted data bags which are a nice
solution. This article covers a puppet approach using the new Hiera
backend. Good post with lots of code examples.

http://www.craigdunn.org/2011/10/secret-variables-in-puppet-with-hiera-and-gpg/


Short presentation on testing in an operations context. Lots of good
ideas, and importantly examples, of the types of tests you might write.

http://chrislaco.com/slides/clerb-testing.pdf


Tools
====

Another week, another Statsd clone. This time in Scala. It's compatible
with the statsd protocol so it's a drop in replacement.

https://github.com/mojodna/metricsd


Nice looking command line tool from Instagram for making SSH access to
EC2 instances easier without having to remember public instance
addresses or deal ever changing DNS entries.

http://instagram-engineering.tumblr.com/post/11399488246/simplifying-ec2-ssh-connections


Lots of continuous delivery examples have been built on top of a
continuous integration server, but Nariya is built from scratch using
node.js. It's quite opinionated and looks to be best suited for other
node.js projects hosted on GitHub.

https://github.com/arunoda/nariya
