--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 45 - 6th November 2011
---

## Issue 45 - 6th November

With having just hit 2000 subscribers to this newsletter I thought I'd
take a moment to say a huge thank you to everyone who has written a blog
post, posted slides or video from a talk or built a tool I've featured
over the last 45 issues. This would be a much less interesting email and
importantly a much less vibrant community without the culture of
sharing.


News
====

Vagrant is great for quickly managing local virtual machines for
development, but if you're wanting to even more accurately simulate the
network from a production cluster you have to delve into how VirtualBox
does its thing. This post does just that with details of VLAN, PXE boot
and bridged network support.

http://jedi.be/blog/2011/11/04/vagrant-virtualbox-hostonly-pxe-vlans/


A nice example of a shared puppet module for Cloudera's Hadoop
distribution. Mainly picking out as I like the provided Vagrant
configuration which lets you play around with a three machine cluster
quickly.

https://github.com/thattommyhall/cloudera-cdh3-puppet


Technical debt is an often used term, and this article takes that and
describes it in terms of infrastructure. It's a good take on the need to
automate where possible and raises good points about some of the people
and process things that need to be changed to make it happen. I
particularly liked the point that "people terribly underestimate the
amount of manual work they do to accomplish a task" which rings true in
my experience too.

http://www.littlehart.net/atthekeyboard/2011/11/03/infrastructure-debt/


As much as devops is about changes to processes and culture, lots of it
is also driven by people with a deep interest in tooling. And not only
are people writing tools or automating things, they are releasing them
at an ever increasing rate. This post tries to get across why it's
nearly always worth it to clean up that code and throw it into the wild.

http://kartar.net/2011/11/why-am-i-a-tool-maker%3f/


Chef is purposefully not opinionated about what you might want to manage
with it. But the flexibility is there to provide cookbooks with
expressive DSL, for example this one for application deployment. The
description of these as "deployment macros" I like, and the fact it's
already managing application written in Java, Scala, Erlang, Ruby and
static sites bodes well.

http://blog.boundary.com/2011/11/01/the-apps-cookbook-and-application-deployments.html


A nice introductory presentation covering why packaging up your Java
applications as RPMs is generally a good idea. Covers everything from
the problems, what you need to do to fix them and other advantages like
simplifying configuration management manifests.

http://www.slideshare.net/actionjackx/automated-java-deployments-with-rpm


A great "one month with chef" article, talking through the learning
curve, how it changes how work got done and with a great list of things
worth knowing before starting. Well worth reading if you're thinking of
getting in to Chef.

http://devopsanywhere.blogspot.com/2011/10/month-with-chef.html


Tools
====

Sensu is a new take on the monitoring problem, using a message queue for
command distribution and discovery and a fast key value store for
keeping track of hosts and checks. It certainly sounds interesting,
although I'd love to see a screen capture of similar to get a better
feel for it.

http://portertech.ca/2011/11/01/sensu-a-monitoring-framework/
https://github.com/sonian/sensu


Databaseliner describes itself as "a tool for spidering a database to
produce a referentially integral subset of data". One use case is for
creating useful datasets for testing purposes based on production data.
Currently it comes with outputs for Postgres and Oracle, but with a bit
of hacking you could add others too.

https://github.com/steppenwells/databaseliner


The VirtualBox guest additions updates can cause problems with Vagrant
base boxes which haven't been created with the latest tools installed.
The three way fight between the version of vagrant, virtual box and the
guest additions has bit me personally a few times. This plugin aims to
help, providing an option for the vagrant file to keep everything up to
date.

https://github.com/dotless-de/vagrant-vbguest
