--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 44 - 30th October 2011
---

## Issue 44 - 30th October

Another week, another set of high quality articles from around the web.
This time next week devopsweekly will probably have over 2000
subscribers which is pretty impressive. And I still believe we're just
the early adopters at this point. Anyway, on with the real content and a
shamelessly promoted opportunity for someone to come and work with me at
the day job.


News
====

If you're in any doubt that devops is attracting a wider audience of
late then have a read through this Wired article. I have to admit I'm
mainly including this due to the title: The Chef, the Puppet, and the
Sexy IT Admin.

http://www.wired.com/wiredenterprise/2011/10/chef_and_puppet/


Puppet has a pretty powerful extension system taking advantage of Ruby
to add new functionality at runtime. This article, the first in a
series, covers some of those integration points and shows lots of code
examples that making it easier to follow along.

http://www.masterzen.fr/2011/10/29/puppet-extension-points-part-1/


Fosdem, the free and open source conference held each year in Belgium is
looking for main track speakers for next year event. Last years
configuration management room was excellent so hopefully we'll see more
good devops flavoured content next year too.

http://fosdem.org/2012/call-main-track


A nice article acting as a counterpoint to all the ones talking about
moving to cloud based hosting. Mixpanel have recently moved to dedicated
hardware, getting better performance and lower costs out of the deal.

http://code.mixpanel.com/2011/10/27/why-we-moved-off-the-cloud/


George Reese gave a presentation at the recent Camp DevOps about some of
the overlaps and resulting benefits of adopting devops approaches in a
cloud environment. The main thread appears to be APIs for everything,
allowing for the entire system (not just the software) to be defined in
code.

http://devops.com/2011/10/23/devops-in-the-cloud-explained/


A nice rebuttal of the argument that you can automate yourself out of a
job. Also nice to think about documentation as a fallback when
automation is not possible or too costly.

http://everythingsysadmin.com/2011/10/automate-will-i-lose-my-job.html


Another writeup from a Camp DevOps talk, this time from Seth Thomson and
Chris Read on Overcoming Organizational Hurdles. The reiteration that
change is hard and communication is important is always welcome, and the
idea that you should get people to pull you in rather than push them
into doing something I found interesting.

http://devops.com/2011/10/22/overcoming-organizational-hurdles/


Jobs
===

I current work for the UK Government, in a brand new department called
Government Digital Service. Our remit is nothing short of fundamentally
changing how the Government operates online, and we're looking for more
smart people. We're currently on the lookout for developers and systems
administrators of all experience levels and backgrounds. Some details
are available on the following links but if you have any questions just
drop me an email at gareth@morethanseven.net

http://digital.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/2011/10/25/the-second-lever/
http://uk.authenticjobs.com/jobs/10481/web-ops
http://uk.authenticjobs.com/jobs/10480/developer


Tools
====

Version 1.4 of Rundeck, the framework for automating ad-hoc and routine
command execution, has been released. Feels like development is
progressing at quite a clip.

https://github.com/dtolabs/rundeck/blob/v1.4.0.1/RELEASE.md


The folks at GitHub have talked quite a bit about Hubot, their campfire
bot which triggers deploys, queries the web and opens the office door
among other things. A cleaned up version of the code has been released
and we're already seeing lots of plugins being added.

https://github.com/blog/968-say-hello-to-hubot
https://github.com/github/hubot-scripts/tree/master/src/scripts


Lots of folks appear to be building tools around Graphite of late.
Tattle looks interesting, described as a self service alerting and
dashboard frontend for graphite. So now you can get alerts when data
sets change or thresholds are passed.

https://github.com/wayfair/Graphite-Tattle
