--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 40 - 2nd October 2011
---

## Issue 40 - 2nd October

First off, sorry for the missing issue last week. Sunday had me
travelling the 5000 miles or so back home from Puppetconf so it
definitely wasn't due to a lack of good content. Puppetconf was
excellent and I'll make an effort to track down any blog posts I can
find once I get a moment. Now on with two weeks worth of news and tools.


News
====

As more people start using tools like Chef an ecosystem can develop, and
Grill is the first commercial tool I've seen that plugs into a Chef
based infrastructure. It's a monitoring tool which makes use of Chef and
lets you see nodes which have got out of sync amongst other things.

http://cyclecomputing.com/grill/overview


I love finding good sized configuration management repos to delve into.
This one comes from the folks at Wikimedia and contains lots of puppet
modules folks might find interesting.

http://blog.wikimedia.org/2011/09/19/ever-wondered-how-the-wikimedia-servers-are-configured/


Some teams have certain tasks that can only safely be run by one person
or group at once, and the use of some token to prevent disaster is a
common pattern. Pass the Puppy is a simple service (you can run your own
version if you prefer) to help in this situation.

http://pass-the-puppy.heroku.com/
http://blog.stevemoyer.net/2011/09/distributed-check-in-tokens-pass-puppy.html


I found this article about the changing skill set of developers
interesting. It mentioned the need to know a little more about making
applications that are deployable and manageable, as well as lots of
other things to learn.

http://www.itworld.com/it-managementstrategy/202999/what-todays-software-developers-need-know


RemoteAdmin is a Android and iPhone application for managing Foreman and
Puppet. It's baed on the APIs exposed by those tools and the screenshots
look excellent. I'd love to see a review of this form anyone who's
already using it.

https://github.com/logicminds/remoteadmin-mobile/wiki


Cloud Foundry seems to be having quite a push to make running a cluster
yourself easier which is good. This post covers running multiple nodes
using Chef.

http://blog.cloudfoundry.com/post/10816758982/using-chef-to-customize-multi-node-cloud-foundry


Not everyone likes the default Puppet requirement for mandatory client
certificates. This gist introduces a different approach that uses facts
rather than the SSL Distinguished Name to determine the classes for a
node, making reusing certs easier.

https://gist.github.com/1182243


A nice write-up of the build a cloud day ahead of Puppetconf. I didn't
manage to get to Portland in time for this event but it sounded very
interesting.

https://www.redhat.com/openshift/blogs/a-report-from-build-a-cloud-day-at-puppetconf


Not everyone can just drop everything and start using a configuration
management tool. That doesn't mean you can't work towards Chef or Puppet
by making existing shell scripts easier to manage. Rerun looks an
interesting approach to making a standard interface for an existing
suite of shell tools.

http://dev2ops.org/blog/2011/9/26/puppet-and-chef-rock-doh-what-about-all-these-shell-scripts.html
https://github.com/dtolabs/rerun/


Now our infrastructure is code, things like change management can be
more easily automated. This article delves into how the folks at
Alassian use their own suite of tools to manage a request for a change.
Always interesting to see other folks processes.

http://blogs.atlassian.com/developer/2011/09/puppet-change-management-for-devops.html


Tools
=====

I've been increasingly using FPM for making system packages, so FPM
Cookery looks interesting. It uses FPM for creating packages, but
provides some conventions and tools around building the software you
want in the package.

https://github.com/bernd/fpm-cookery


Ever wanted to draw diagrams but not felt like moving out of vim (or
your editor of choice)? With Ditaa you can generate a wide range of flow
chart diagrams from nothing more than ascii text. It had me at the
example at the top of the page.

http://ditaa.sourceforge.net/


More folks are using Configuration Management tools as part of
application deployment and this is a nice  (and very well documented)
puppet module aimed at managing Python WSGI and Django web applications.

http://journal.uggedal.com/deploying-wsgi-applications-with-puppet/
https://github.com/uggedal/puppet-module-webapp


Scales is a Python web application and library for collecting metrics
data from your application or servers. It has a nice built in web server
for showing data and integrates with Graphite for tracking data over
time.

https://github.com/Greplin/scales
