--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 37 - 4th September 2011
---

## Issue 37 - 4th September

Not the biggest issue this week but a few good posts and tools,
especially if you're using Chef. That's because I've been busier than
usual this week rather than a lack of content, so if you spot, write or
build anything you think would be worth including do email me at
gareth@morethanseven.net


News
====

One think I've really liked about the nascent Devops community has been
it's reaction to criticism. This week an article from The IT Skeptic
raised a number of issues, some of which had more to do with a seemingly
anti-agile leaning. What was more interesting was the comments and a
follow up post by Ernest Mueller.

http://www.itskeptic.org/devops-and-traditional-itsm-why-devops-wont-change
http://theagileadmin.com/2011/09/02/addressing-the-it-skeptics-view-on-devops/

One of the things no-one surely likes about Nagios is writing the
configuration files by hand. This article from the folks at Fotopedia
shows how they are using Chef to generate the Nagios configs, something
that makes it much more likely you'll add checks in the first place.
Lots of code examples.

http://code.fotopedia.com/2011/08/nagios-and-chef-at-fotopedia.html?m=1

Nice looking presentation from the people at Slideshare at Devopsdays
Bangalore. A nice, honest, success story, and one that's not scared of
revealing how messed up things had been. From zero deployments in four
months to five times a day. all with better uptime.

http://www.slideshare.net/kapil/devops-at-slideshare-talk-at-devopsdays-bangalore-2011

Although everyone's operating environment is similar and tools can often
just slot straight in, some industries or companies come with pretty
specific requirements. Picklive are using Chef but had some additional
needs around everything being over SSL and not displaying stack traces.
An interesting blog post resulted about how they dealt with them.

http://tech.picklive.com/2011/09/02/chef-on-steroids.html

Presentation from InfoQ by Chris Read and Dan North on Agile Operations.
Worth watching if only for the synchronised fairy tale reading at the
start.

http://www.infoq.com/presentations/Agile-Operations-Optimizing-Business

Puppetlabs have released version 1.2 of their Puppet Enterprise product.
It now ships with even more compliance related tools as well as the
managed installer for all the components and professional support as
before.

http://puppetlabs.com/blog/introducing-puppet-enterprise-1-2/?utm_campaign=blog&utm_medium=socnet


Tools
=====

Atlas from Ning is a tool used to define a template for systems which
can be instantiated, torn down and upgraded. It uses Chef in the middle,
but provides a DSL onto fro describing a system - so at at slightly
different abstraction level closer to something like CloudFormation.

http://code.ning.com/2011/06/atlas-2/
https://github.com/ning/atlas/

Spice looks to be a new project aimed at giving you a API for
integrating with a Chef server. Not many examples yet but worth keeping
any eye on if you're building tools around Chef.

https://github.com/danryan/spice
