---
layout: post
title: Issue 53 - 8th January 2012
---

## Issue 53 - 8th January

Some big news this week for devopsweekly - I now have a sponsor. All
that really means to you the reader is you'll get a short sponsors
message at the top of each edition which I'm hoping you'll find useful.
Say a huge thanks to the nice folks at Brightbox.


Sponsor
======

Brightbox Cloud - the UK's only multi-zone cloud infrastructure service,
is the new sponsor of Devops Weekly.

http://brightbox.com


News
====

Lovely article about the tool building ecosystem at Etsy. The examples
given also look fantastic, I'm sure anyone using Solr in anger will be
thinking about how they can get something like the Etsy query analyser.

http://codeascraft.etsy.com/2012/01/04/the-product-hacking-ecosystem/


And another fantastic article about how Netflix organise their teams of
developers and operations folks. Some great take aways from the notes,
including negative opinions about "innovation" teams and some ideas
about structuring multiple teams in an engineering organisation.

http://perfcap.blogspot.com/2011/12/how-netflix-gets-out-of-way-of.html


Some thoughts about what one user would like to see in the Chef
ecosystem this year. Some discussions well worth having, including
packaging cookbooks, driving wider Ruby support and the best ways to
test of cookbooks.

http://devopsanywhere.blogspot.com/2012/01/chef-in-2012.html


An argument against a mad dash towards using the latest tools and a call
for more writing and discussion about the processes and techniques used
by different organisations. I'd definitely agree from the point of view
of compiling this newsletter it's easier to find content focused only on
tooling, the Etsy and Netflix posts above being great exceptions.

http://www.charleshooper.net/blog/we-have-the-tools-but-what-about-the-techniques/


A good writeup of various monitoring tools and ways in which you might
integrate them. Covers getting data in and out of lots of tools
including graphite, ganglia, cumin, cacti and more. A separate post goes
into more detail about Nagios "Controlling the tool everybody hates, but
still uses".

http://jedi.be/blog/2012/01/03/monitoring-wonderland-metrics-api-gateways/
http://jedi.be/blog/2012/01/03/monitoring-wonderland-nagios-the-mighty-beast/


Editors Note: I nearly didn't include this next post because someone is
going to suggest it's only here because of the sponsorship. It's the
opposite. One of the reasons I agreed to have Brightbox sponsor was that
they build interesting tools and write about them online. 

After reading the Riak handbook over the holidays I'd been meaning to
set up a cluster to play with, and this article covers how to do so
pretty simply. The instructions are for Brightbox cloud but you can
easily extract the Riak specific commands if you're hosted elsewhere.

http://docs.brightbox.com/guides/cli/riak-cluster/


After FOSDEM, on the 6th and 7th of February, a few people are gathering
under the #monitoringsucks umbrella for a hack day. If you can get to
Antwerp then it should be an interesting few days.

http://www.krisbuytaert.be/blog/monitoringsucks-and-well-fix-it



Tools
====

The folks at Rackspace have open sourced Dreadnot, an in-house tool for
continuous deployment. It looks to be doing some interesting things with
regards multi-region deployments and the discussion of their experiences
with Etsy's deployinator are worth reading too.

http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/blog/2012/01/05/rackspace-open-sources-dreadnot/
https://github.com/racker/dreadnot


An interesting looking project to collect common utility scripts for
Jenkins. At the moment it contains only a few groovy scripts for the
script console for purging old data, but the idea is it should contain
all sorts of useful code to help manage jenkins. I'd encourage anyone
with scripts they already use to think about sending a pull request.

https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins-scripts


Foodcritica is a nice looking lint tool for your Opscode Chef cookbooks.
It covers 18 rules so far from some LWRP checks to checking for the
correct metadata. It's designed to be integrated with a continuous
integration system as well.

http://acrmp.github.com/foodcritic/


A pretty comprehensive looking Puppet module for managing the
installation and configuration of a Jenkins instance. It covers the
installation of Jenkins plugins as well which is particularly handy.

http://unethicalblogger.com/2011/12/28/jenkins-with-puppet.html
https://github.com/rtyler/puppet-jenkins
